build/README.md, before:

# Build VM image for Yandex Compute Cloud

This directory contains scripts and configuration for preparing a VM image
that will be deployed as Yandex Compute instance later.

## Overview

- `make bucket` will create an S3 bucket in Yandex Object Storage (uses
  Terraform under the hood; `make destroy` will destroy the bucket if it's
  empty)
- `make image` will build the VM image using following steps (*requires root*):
    - Download latest [Debian Official Cloud image](https://cloud.debian.org/images/cloud/)
    - Use qemu-nbd, qemu-resize and mount to expose root filesystem within QCOW2 image
    - Copy `template/` directory into rootfs
    - Execute `template/prepare.sh` in chroot shell. Heavy lifting is
      delegated then to Ansible
- `make compact` will compress resulting image to save us some storage costs
- `make upload` will upload the image to S3 bucket using awscli

## Deployment status

This VM image is continuously deployed to pre-existing S3 bucket
using GitHub Actions (see [.github/workflows/server.yml](../.github/workflows/server.yml))

Commit message:

Use systemd-nspawn instead of chroot
Chroot was pretty invasive and could leave host in a broken state.
Bad parts of chroot:
    - Requires loading kernel module (nbd)
    - /run is bind mounted from host to avoid systemd errors
    - /dev/nbd15 was hardcoded
    - Multiple bind mounts. If build failed, user had to umount all of
      those manually

Systemd-nspawn is much cleaner, here's the good parts:
    - Bind mounts are automatically unmounted upon container termination
    - Proper host isolation in regards to devices, sysctl and so on
    - Real systemd in container can execute complex service dependencies
      and clean up after them
    - No possibility of runaway processes thanks to proper namespacing

Unfortunately, with systemd-nspawn there is still a possibility of leaving
the host in non-clean state:
    - Temporary modifications are required for host firewall. Those are
      cleaned up correctly on build failure, but not on SIGTERM to make process
    - sysctl is invoked to enable IPv4 forwarding (to enable Internet
      access in container with private network interface).
      Cleanup is implemented in the same way as for the firewall
    - Device entry is in use (/dev/loop*) and may be left behind on
      failures (not very likely). Dangling device entry will not intefere
      with consequitive builds though, which is better than with a
      hardcoded /dev/nbd15

After listing all of the drawbacks I hesitated about adding this to main
tree. Advantages are not that outstanding, and current process works.
In the end I've decided in favor of nspawn because of better process
isolation.

build/README.md, after:

# Build VM image for Yandex Compute Cloud

This directory contains scripts and configuration for preparing a VM image
that will be deployed as Yandex Compute instance later.

## Overview

- `make bucket` will create an S3 bucket in Yandex Object Storage (uses
  Terraform under the hood; `make destroy` will destroy the bucket if it's
  empty)
- `make image` will build the VM image using following steps (*requires root*):
    - Download latest [Debian Official Cloud image](https://cloud.debian.org/images/cloud/)
    - Use qemu-utils to convert image to raw format and to grow root partition
    - Execute `template/prepare.sh` in systemd-nspawn container. Heavy lifting is
      delegated then to Ansible
    - Use qemu-utils again to compress resulting image back to qcow2
- `make upload` will upload the image to S3 bucket using awscli

## Deployment status

This VM image is continuously deployed to pre-existing S3 bucket
using GitHub Actions (see [.github/workflows/server.yml](../.github/workflows/server.yml))
